>> Maximiliano Firtman: This is the lab,
the only one that I will
do completely from scratch.
So you don't need to download anything,
in case you wanna follow along.
It's not a big deal, it's gonna be
a very simple example of modules, okay?
The rest of the examples we will
jump directly into the URL that we
mentioned before but this one I
will get out, I will open BS code.
I'm in an empty folder, nothing is here.
I'm going to create a new index HML file,
and
I'm going to create a basic HML, okay?
Nothing fancy, something very simple, and
I will add a script
source script1.js okay?
I will save this.
And of course, I don't have that file,
script1.js so I will Ctrl click
on Windows command, click on the Mac, on
my BS code, I will create the file, okay?
And I can say, console,
low, I'm script1, okay?
Nothing fancy, something very simple.
So is this a module?
Actually, when you're reading a module
you don't know if it's a module or not.
Because actually a module
is not the file itself,
it's how you imported the file, or
how the engine imported the file.
When you're looking at the file, you
don't know if it's a module or not, okay?
In fact, I am not actually
loading that file as a module.
So, in this case, if I execute this,
it's not going to be executed as a module.
So I need to add type = module.
So if you don't add this, that's fine.
It's not a module, okay?
So now it's a module and because it's
a module I can import
other modules as well.
So I'm going to create three modules here,
script1, script2.js, script3.js.
So very simple,
very simple to understand the concepts.
And everyone will just
say in the console m1,
m2, m3, okay, nothing really complicated.
Shot three messages in the console.
So of course I can go to my index HTML and
add three scripts, I can do that.
If I do that,
I'm creating the three different trees.
Okay, actually it's one three in
the context, the whole context but
in this case we are opening
three different trees, but
I don't need to do that,
I can just import.
For example, from a script one
I can import ./script2 and
look at this BS code by default,
give you a suggestion,
that suggestion is not gonna work.
If I press return,
it's not adding the.js, okay?
So for .js, it may work, it depends if
you're going through a bubble or not.
If you're going through a bubble for
the browser, it will work, but
it's not gonna work in
my browser directly.
I need to add the node.js.
By the way, I'm not specifying
what I'm importing, actually.
Can I do that?
Yes, you can.
It's not mandatory to
say that I wanna import
something in my context,
in my local module context.
And that import sounds weird, I know.
Even if you have experience
working with modules,
you feel like something's missing there.
But let's run this.
So, I will open a trusted terminal here,
and
I'm going to say npx serve.
I also have live server here, plug in.
It's just opening this in a web server,
actually,
I can open this directly
with the file protocol.
So of course, it's an empty page, but
if I open the console,
I have a 404 on the file icon.
I don't care, but I can see this.
You can see the three
scripts are being loaded and
I'm pretty sure that some of
you were not expecting this,
because I didn't import anything in
particular from each module, okay?
So I'm not saying I wanna
import the variable, actually,
I don't have anything
exported from these modules.
I have three modules, but
just console log messages.
And now that's a tree, and you can see
the order in which they were executed.
It's also not the order that you were
expecting, probably, I guess, so why?
Look at this.
I have an HTML that is loading a script1,
so
we're expecting that to be executed first,
right?
Because it's the first entry point.
And 1 is importing 2 and 3.
But actually, the execution
because JavaScript has two phases,
I'm not sure if you know that.
When JavaScript is actually executing
your code, it has a two-phase process.
In the first phase, for example,
it's recognizing the import statements.
And it says, you have an import?
Okay, let's go and import that, okay?
And then it's executing the file.
So that's why the order is 2, 3, and 1.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yes.
>> Male Speaker 1: Now,
would that order change if you put
the line four console log in script1 up to
line one before?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So
you're saying what happens if I change
the order like this?
Will it work?
First, for some of you, I think
that it will hurt your eyes, right?
Like some of you are expecting
all the imports to be at the top.
Let's see, if I execute this, it's not
changing the execution order, why?
Because of the two phases.
So on the first phase, JavaScript is
not executing the JavaScript code.
It's just picking some things.
For example, imports.
It's also variables.
Defining variables and
functions is picking them.
And then after it's in this case,
downloading all the other scripts and
executing the scripts,
it will execute the console log, okay?
Another question for you to think about.
Again, if you have
experience with modules,
maybe you haven't thought
about this in these details.
What happens if a script2 is
also importing a script3?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Will I
get two console logs?
So saying I'm a script3 or only 1,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: No
idea I am seeing phases of no idea.
So again,
I have a script1 is importing 2 and 3, and
now 2 is also importing 3, okay?
So this is what we have right now.
I'm going to refresh, and I'm having
something similar but in different order.
But the important part here is
that three is not executing twice.
So if a module is already in the tree,
it doesn't matter if someone else is
importing it, it's not executing it again.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay, makes sense?
So you can safely add or
import as many modules as you want
from any module without
caring too much about
what if other module is also
important it doesn't matter.
It will be loaded only once and
executed only once, okay?
So that's the tree,
there is no simple way to see the tree
actually visually see the tree.
So, doing counselor is a way to see the
order in which they are executed, okay?
But okay, it makes sense?
>> Male Speaker 2: Is this
the same as hoisting?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Hoisting,
so, it's not the same as hoisting.
But hoisting has to do with the two
phases that I mentioned before.
For example, hoisting will let
you create a variable x and
use the variable before the declaration,
why?
Because there are these two phases.
So hoisting had to do with this,
in the first phase it recognizes,
we will have an x variable, okay?
And then on the second phase,
it executes that.
So x is a variable.
So it says, okay, it's that.
So it's not the same as hoisting, but
the relationship is actually that part,
this two-phase declaration.
The imports are going through the first
phase before executing, okay?
But typically you don't do this.
I mean, do we have use case?
In fact,
if you have ever played with modules,
do you remember any use case where
you were importing like this without
specifying something
here with the from key?
>> Male Speaker 1: CSS files for long.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Can you
import CSS files in JavaScript?
What's that?
>> Male Speaker 1: That might be with.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: That's
probably Babel with React or
with a framework that will let you
import a CSS file or an SVG file.
And then use that, that then will
replace that import into something else.
But that's definitely not ECMAScript.
In ECMAScript, I mean,
if you try to import a CSS file,
you will get a syntax error, because it
will try to parse your CSS as JavaScript.
And yeah, it's not JavaScript.
So one use case to these
imports is web components.
If you're using web components and
you create one file per component,
the only thing you need is to have
them in the tree, in the module tree.
And you don't need to even
import the component, okay?
Because typically component
goes to a new HTML tag.
So it's registered in the systems
with a different system.
So that's a way, but
most of the time what you are used to is
that I know script3,
we create a function, okay?
And the function will
return an item three.
We have an export declaration,
that's the most common way
to work with modules, okay?
So then from a script2, you can import and
specify in curly braces,
all the items that you actually
want to import Import from,
and you need to use the from keyword.
So you're going to import, and here you
will say test three from a script3.
So then you can execute
test three from another.
From a script2, you can execute or
you can create an object from a class
declaration that is in a different file,
or you can use a value variable and
object that was defined in the other file.
That's the most common scenario.
And can I use it from script1?
No, unless I also add
something similar here.
There three from.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: On every module
that you wanna use that function you
need to explicitly say when I
import that function, okay?
And that's probably something that
you have already used before.
And the default one is one instead
of exporting different things,
you use export default and then you pass
only one value can be a class declaration,
a variable, it can be a function,
or it can be an object.
So then I can export an object and
that object I have several properties,
the name, I'm a script2, and
then I have a function that is a test.
Let's say it's a function
that will do something.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: And now I'm
exporting an object, only one object.
And from the other side, when you import.
For example, from here when you import you
just specify one name for that object.
And this is the pattern where
we can discuss if that object
will be capitalized or not,
like script2 capital S or not.
It's up to you.
But then you can say a script2 dot and
you have test and
you have name
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay,
that's the difference, so
if you have calibrases it's not a default
export it's just a series of exports
available from the other module.
If it doesn't contain the calibrases,
it's just a default export.
Actually, that's all for modules.
It's not so complicated.
It's just to understand how
you can now modularize all
your scripts have in mind
this works also node.js with
everything we've mentioned on
how to enable modules before.